Instructor deleted all css files from bootstrap distribution EXCEPT bootstrap.min.css because they aren't used in this course; I tagged them gray instead

Building the NavBar
want to make the top section (nav bar) in the bootstrap template look like that on the 1 million lines site. The bootstrap template has inputs for email address and password and this might be very useful for the future so seek to understand the code for this
He looked at the bootstrap templates and located one that shows a navbar more like what he wants; if unexperienced then when perusing the html code for that template, it's not obvious which code is repsonsible for the navbar; so you can inspect that element using Chrome dev tools -- use inspect element feature (right click) to locate the precise code in both the source document (template) and the destination document (html page your building)

Idented code is very helpful for identifying the particular portion that you want to copy/replace. Should reflect parent-child elements.

He wanted to move certain block elements in the header to the right of the page, so he looked under the components section (why?) of getbootsrap.com to locate one; clicked on navbar in menu on right hand side of page; under this clicked on component alignment; he inspected the element to see exactly what he wanted to move to the right -- chose the code for 'Home' 'About' 'Contact' in inspector as the components to move right; this is one thing I didn't catch clearly -- he highlighted .navbar-right from component alignment page of getbootstrap.com page (looked like a url to me, but maybe not) and ended up pasting this into his code at <ul class=nav navbar-nav> point, but deleted the period (would've been and ID if not) so he added another class of navbar-right
Then to change 'Project Name', he simply edited HTML content to 'One Million Lines'; changed HTML content of 'Home' to 'Who We Are', and 'About' to 'Get Involved'; deleted 'Contact' entirely; there's a green button on the OML site that appears in the spot of 'Contact', but he's ignoring that for now

The HTML code with button followed by several spans is for the responsive part of the website; demoed this by adjusintg the width of the viewport and navbar adjusted as well, eventually turning into a menu icon when the window was very small

One of the links in the navbar was always "highlighted" but the other woudn't except on mouseover. Deleted class="active" in the ul line in HTML code so that now highlights only occur upon mouseover

Using inspector you can see the css code on the right hand side for particular HTML code; example he gave was the custom.css file we linked to partially style the body of the document -- clicking on body shows css file in right column

Was able to change the display of the page by typing in the css "panel" when using the inspector  -- this is temporary I assume. (YES, this will go away when page is refreshed,but a GREAT way to see effect of changes and see how divs line up in this case) this produced a 1px border around the jumbotron 'section'; also did this for the div col-md-4 and container within the jumbotron

He reloads and then changes HTML so that we have text OUTSIDE these divs; added a paragraph temporarily to demo this and show it wasn't a child element of container

From documentation: Lesson Notes for 'Get Your Font On' -- 
● So we’ve seen 2 new types of selectors in CSS in this lesson. Last lesson we did .jumbotron to define styling in any HTML element with a class of jumbotron.

○ However in this less we used .jumbotron h1 to style only h1 tags in our div with the jumbotron class. So this is saying any HTML element with a class of jumbotron that has an h1 within it (another way to say would be that has an h1 child element) style those h1’s this way.

○ Then we also used ul.nav in this lesson. This says any ul that has a class of nav style it this way. So you may be asking the question well we didn’t put div before .jumbotron. We could have. So we could have said div.jumbotron and it would be referring to only divs with a class of jumbotron, but since in our HTML we have only given a class of jumbotron to divs and we haven’t given any uls or any other type of HTML element the class of jumbotron then it doesn’t matter.

○ So notice the difference in the two naming conventions of the above examples with the selectors. A selector with a class and then an HTML tag (ex. .jumbotron h1) refers to the styling of the h1 child elements of divs (or any HTML element for that matter since div wasn’t specified) with a class of jumbotron. In contrast to an HTML tag followed with a class in a selector refers to only HTML elements that are the tag mentioned and has the class mentioned, for example p.lead refers only to paragraphs with a class of lead (the HTML
would look like this <p class=”lead”>content</p>).

For the box model, regarding the inspect element tool
- HTML elements in blue
- padding is green (within border)
- border is yellow?
- margin is orange (outside border)

background image is "in css"? so it doesn't allow copy image, copy url, etc options when right clicking like logo image does; you can get this options for the image if you right click on the image (link, code,?) in the right column when inspecting the element. That's how he copied the image whereas I downloaded the image from the instructional site.

../ escapes out of current folder so you can navigate to a particular path, in this case for the hero_image.jpg file to use as our background image; Why put this in the css? 

Used padding (or could have used margin) to move the text in in the paragraph (talked about the defined width of the div container and how this adjusts for that ). Make sure you understand this. Note also that for a value of 0 the px designation is optional

png files, as opposed to jpg, have transparent backgrounds - DID NOT KNOW THAT!

He noted that for the logo element that was added that it and the anchor element are both inline elements so they stay on the same line. Does the javascript in bootstrap create the navbar the way it is (on one line) since it's a ul?

With Google account you can use a free tool to create forms (go to drive.google.com) that allow you to collect input/feedback from site visitors. He utilized the default form. You can select different question formats (text, multiple choice, etc). Also lets you complete a confirmation page so that visitor receives notification of their actions (NOTE: he made the question required). At end of setup, click on Send Form then copy url for the form, then past this url as the link for one of the buttons on the site (making sure you use attribute target="_blank" so that it opens in a new tab/window). Google Drive automatically creates a responses spreadsheet so you can view these. Can set up notification rules for when/how/how often you are notified when this spreadsheet changes.

font-awesome allows you to include some nifty icons on your site. Technically not a font, but a set of scalable vector icons. Google the site and download the icons from the site. When installing in to first site/fonts folder, he deleted glyphicons that come with bootstrap because they aren't needed for this project. Site url is http://fortawesome.github.io/Font-Awesome/ . He navigated to icons and searched for ones of interest (used the camera retro on examples page to demonstrate how this work). This renders a small icon justified left, but we want a white icon centered over a dark circular background. Navigate back to the font-awesome examples page and look for Stacked Icons. He grabbed a particular <span> code (didn't explain why this one in particular) and pasted code in index.hmtl . When page reloads, you actually see the user icon and flag icon side by side since these are inline elements (verify by looking at code). Changed to code copied from the example from flag to user (since we want the user icon) and delete the previous code for the user icon. To change size of icon, look at examples on font-awesome site and note code for a larger icon (he chose 4x size) and change that in index.html (went from -lg to -4x). Copied that segment of code for the icon and pasted above other "headings", i.e. educators and sponsors. Didn't find exact matches for terms so used pencil and money icons.  

From the grid system, columns are the only thing allowed to be immediate child elements of rows. (I really need to comprehend the grid system better to understand why he placed the new h2 where he did).

When adding the <hr>, I didn't get everything. I need to refer to the box model and comprehend what the styling rules actually do. But he did point out that the custom styling is overriding some of the bootstrap styling. Since <hr> is a block element, to center it you must give a margin-left and margin-right of auto. But the CSS code he added didn't seem to reflect this yet it worked. More to understand here.






















